RELEASING.md, before:

# Clash's release process

Clash actively deploys to one platform: [Hackage](http://hackage.haskell.org/package/clash-prelude),
a source distribution platform for Haskell applications.

Development happens on the `master` branch. Released versions live in `1.0`,
`1.2`, etc. Changes made to these branches automatically get published every
night. This is achieved through [GitLab Pipeline Schedules](https://gitlab.com/clash-lang/clash-compiler/pipeline_schedules).
(You need admin access to see that page.) At the time of writing it gets
triggered on `master` and `1.6`. A release candidate gets pushed out
with the version numbers in the various cabal files. Candidates can be previewed
on [a special Hackage page](http://hackage.haskell.org/package/clash-prelude/candidates/).

## Branches overview
* `master`: development branch
  * Only members of the `devops` team can merge to it

* `[0-9].[0-9]`: release branches
  * Only members of the `devops` team can merge to it
  * Warning: matches `1.0`, `1.2`, but NOT `1.22` (GitHub limitation).

## Releasing a new version major version (1.x)
1. Change version numbers in:
  * `clash-prelude/clash-prelude.cabal`
  * `clash-prelude-hedgehog/clash-prelude-hedgehog.cabal`
  * `clash-lib/clash-lib.cabal`
  * `clash-lib-hedgehog/clash-lib-hedgehog.cabal`
  * `clash-ghc/clash-ghc.cabal`
  * `clash-cores/clash-cores.cabal`
  * `docs/conf.py`
2. Update the CHANGELOG (see changelog/README.md).
3. Create a release branch named after the major version of Clash you're trying to
   release. For example, if you're planning on releasing Clash 1.6.0, create a
   branch called `1.6`.
4. Repeat step (1) in the new release branch.
5. Change the defaults of cabal flags in `clash-prelude/clash-prelude.cabal`
   where necessary. At the time of writing this applies only to
   `-fmultiple-hidden`.
6. Ask someone with admin permissions on GitLab to create a new nightly schedule
   and trigger a test release build on [GitLab CI](https://gitlab.com/clash-lang/clash-compiler/pipeline_schedules).
   The new schedule should be the same as the old one, but targeting the new
   release branch. Verify that the Hackage release deploys well, and preview
   the release. [Preview on Hackage](http://hackage.haskell.org/package/clash-prelude/candidates/)
7. Write release notes for: Twitter, LinkedIn, and clash-lang.org.
8. Create a release on [GitHub's new release page](https://github.com/clash-lang/clash-compiler/releases/new)
9. After the release is on Hackage: run `changelog/comment-gh.py` and execute
   the commands it lists. This will inform users subscribed to specific issues
   that a fix for their issue is now in a released version.
10. Update the [starter projects](https://github.com/clash-lang/stack-templates/)
11. Update these docs if anything is missing :-)
12. Enjoy!

## Releasing a new version minor version (1.x.x)
1. Change version numbers in:
  * `clash-prelude/clash-prelude.cabal`
  * `clash-prelude-hedgehog/clash-prelude-hedgehog.cabal`
  * `clash-lib/clash-lib.cabal`
  * `clash-lib-hedgehog/clash-lib-hedgehog.cabal`
  * `clash-ghc/clash-ghc.cabal`
  * `clash-cores/clash-cores.cabal`
  * `docs/conf.py`
2. Update the CHANGELOG (see changelog/README.md).
3. Ask someone with admin permissions on GitLab to trigger a nightly schedule,
   or simply wait a day. Verify that the Hackage release deploys well, and
   preview the release. [Preview on Hackage](http://hackage.haskell.org/package/clash-prelude/candidates/)
4. Create a release on [GitHub's new release page](https://github.com/clash-lang/clash-compiler/releases/new)
5. Update the [starter projects](https://github.com/clash-lang/stack-templates/)
6. Cherry-pick commit made in (2) to `master`
7. After the release is on Hackage: run `changelog/comment-gh.py` and execute
   the commands it lists. This will inform users subscribed to specific issues
   that a fix for their issue is now in a released version.
8. Update these docs if anything is missing :-)
9. Enjoy!

Commit message:

Amend `RELEASING.md` (#2615)
Add Mergify instructions and improve the instructions for writing
`CHANGELOG.md`.

RELEASING.md, after:

# Clash's release process

Clash actively deploys to one platform: [Hackage](http://hackage.haskell.org/package/clash-prelude),
a source distribution platform for Haskell applications.

Development happens on the `master` branch. Released versions live in `1.0`,
`1.2`, etc. Changes made to these branches automatically get published every
night. This is achieved through [GitLab Pipeline Schedules](https://gitlab.com/clash-lang/clash-compiler/pipeline_schedules).
(You need admin access to see that page.) At the time of writing it gets
triggered on `master` and `1.6`. A release candidate gets pushed out
with the version numbers in the various cabal files. Candidates can be previewed
on [a special Hackage page](http://hackage.haskell.org/package/clash-prelude/candidates/).

## Branches overview
* `master`: development branch
  * Only members of the `devops` team can merge to it

* `[0-9].[0-9]`: release branches
  * Only members of the `devops` team can merge to it
  * Warning: matches `1.0`, `1.2`, but NOT `1.22` (GitHub limitation).

## Releasing a new version major version (1.x)
1. Change version numbers in:
  * `clash-prelude/clash-prelude.cabal`
  * `clash-prelude-hedgehog/clash-prelude-hedgehog.cabal`
  * `clash-lib/clash-lib.cabal`
  * `clash-lib-hedgehog/clash-lib-hedgehog.cabal`
  * `clash-ghc/clash-ghc.cabal`
  * `clash-cores/clash-cores.cabal`
  * `docs/conf.py`
2. Update the CHANGELOG (see `changelog/README.md`). Each entry should normally
   end with a link to a PR or issue. The script `changelog/blame_pr.py` will
   tell you for a single file which PR('s) introduced it.
3. Add a new `pull_request_rule` for backports to `.mergify.yml` for the branch
   you will create.
4. Create a release branch named after the major version of Clash you're trying to
   release. For example, if you're planning on releasing Clash 1.6.0, create a
   branch called `1.6`.
5. Repeat step (1) in the new release branch.
6. Change the defaults of cabal flags in `clash-prelude/clash-prelude.cabal`
   where necessary. At the time of writing this applies only to
   `-fmultiple-hidden`.
7. Ask someone with admin permissions on GitLab to create a new nightly schedule
   and trigger a test release build on [GitLab CI](https://gitlab.com/clash-lang/clash-compiler/pipeline_schedules).
   The new schedule should be the same as the old one, but targeting the new
   release branch. Verify that the Hackage release deploys well, and preview
   the release. [Preview on Hackage](http://hackage.haskell.org/package/clash-prelude/candidates/)
8. Write release notes for: Twitter, LinkedIn, and clash-lang.org.
9. Create a release on [GitHub's new release page](https://github.com/clash-lang/clash-compiler/releases/new)
10. After the release is on Hackage: run `changelog/comment-gh.py` and execute
   the commands it lists. This will inform users subscribed to specific issues
   that a fix for their issue is now in a released version.
11. Update the [starter projects](https://github.com/clash-lang/stack-templates/)
12. Update these docs if anything is missing :-)
13. Enjoy!

## Releasing a new version minor version (1.x.x)
1. Change version numbers in:
  * `clash-prelude/clash-prelude.cabal`
  * `clash-prelude-hedgehog/clash-prelude-hedgehog.cabal`
  * `clash-lib/clash-lib.cabal`
  * `clash-lib-hedgehog/clash-lib-hedgehog.cabal`
  * `clash-ghc/clash-ghc.cabal`
  * `clash-cores/clash-cores.cabal`
  * `docs/conf.py`
2. Update the CHANGELOG (see `changelog/README.md`). Each entry should normally
   end with a link to a PR or issue. The script `changelog/blame_pr.py` will
   tell you for a single file which PR('s) introduced it.
3. Ask someone with admin permissions on GitLab to trigger a nightly schedule,
   or simply wait a day. Verify that the Hackage release deploys well, and
   preview the release. [Preview on Hackage](http://hackage.haskell.org/package/clash-prelude/candidates/)
4. Create a release on [GitHub's new release page](https://github.com/clash-lang/clash-compiler/releases/new)
5. Update the [starter projects](https://github.com/clash-lang/stack-templates/)
6. Cherry-pick commit made in (2) to `master`
7. After the release is on Hackage: run `changelog/comment-gh.py` and execute
   the commands it lists. This will inform users subscribed to specific issues
   that a fix for their issue is now in a released version.
8. Update these docs if anything is missing :-)
9. Enjoy!
