clash-lib/README.md, before:

# `clash-lib` - Clash compiler, as a library

  * See the LICENSE file for license and copyright details

# Clash - A functional hardware description language
Clash is a functional hardware description language that borrows both
its syntax and semantics from the functional programming language
Haskell. The Clash compiler transforms these high-level descriptions to
low-level synthesizable VHDL, Verilog, or SystemVerilog.

Features of Clash:

  * Strongly typed, but with a very high degree of type inference, enabling both
    safe and fast prototyping using concise descriptions.

  * Interactive REPL: load your designs in an interpreter and easily test all
    your component without needing to setup a test bench.

  * Higher-order functions, with type inference, result in designs that are
    fully parametric by default.

  * Synchronous sequential circuit design based on streams of values, called
    `Signal`s, lead to natural descriptions of feedback loops.

  * Support for multiple clock domains, with type safe clock domain crossing.

# Support
For updates and questions join the mailing list clash-language+subscribe@googlegroups.com or read the [forum](https://groups.google.com/d/forum/clash-language)

Commit message:

Update community links in package READMEs (#2896)
These READMEs are rendered as part of the documentation on Hackage, and
are thus pretty prominent. But the links at the bottom aren't very up
to date anymore. I just copied the essence from clash-lang.org.

The `Hackage Dependencies` badge is unfortunately no longer supported:

https://github.com/badges/shields/pull/10618

so we should drop the badge.

clash-lib/README.md, after:

# `clash-lib` - Clash compiler, as a library

  * See the LICENSE file for license and copyright details

# Clash - A functional hardware description language
Clash is a functional hardware description language that borrows both
its syntax and semantics from the functional programming language
Haskell. The Clash compiler transforms these high-level descriptions to
low-level synthesizable VHDL, Verilog, or SystemVerilog.

Features of Clash:

  * Strongly typed, but with a very high degree of type inference, enabling both
    safe and fast prototyping using concise descriptions.

  * Interactive REPL: load your designs in an interpreter and easily test all
    your component without needing to setup a test bench.

  * Higher-order functions, with type inference, result in designs that are
    fully parametric by default.

  * Synchronous sequential circuit design based on streams of values, called
    `Signal`s, lead to natural descriptions of feedback loops.

  * Support for multiple clock domains, with type safe clock domain crossing.

# Open-source community
Clash benefits from an active community. Whether you need a question answered or
want to contribute to open-source features, browse the features below to make
the most of Clash.

- [Discourse: long form discussions and questions](https://clash-lang.discourse.group/)
- [Discord: short form discussions and community chat room](https://discord.gg/rebGq25FB4)
- [Slack: short form discussions and questions](https://functionalprogramming.slack.com/archives/CPGMJFF50)
  (Invite yourself at [fpslack.com](https://fpslack.com))
- [Github: issue tracker](https://github.com/clash-lang/clash-compiler/issues)
