clash-ffi/README.md, before:

# `clash-ffi` - Clash FFI with Simulator Tools

  * See the LICENSE file for license and copyright details

# Clash FFI

This package provides FFI support for interfacing with simulation tools over
a standard interface (e.g. VPI / VHPI / FLI). Currently only VPI is supported.

All interaction with a simulator follows the same general process:

  * The Haskell code performing the FFI is compiled as a foreign
    shared library. To this end, your project's cabal must be extended
    by a `foreign-library` section, e.g.,

    ```cabal
    foreign-library <my-clash-ffi-lib-name>
      default-language: Haskell2010
      includes:         vpi_user.h
      include-dirs:     </path/to/vpi_user.h>
      build-depends:    clash-ffi,
                        ...
      type:             native-shared
      lib-version-info: 0:1:0
      cpp-options:      -DVERILOG=1 -DIVERILOG=1 -DVERILOG_2001=1 -DVERILOG_2005=1 -DVPI_VECVAL=1
      ...
    ```

    See `vpi_user.h` for more details on the possible
    `cpp-options`. You can either use the `vpi_user.h`, which is
    shipped with this project, (see the `include` directory) or the
    one that's usually provided by the simulator. Note that
    `clash-ffi` gets included just like any other standard Haskell
    library to your project at this point.

  * Cabal creates libraries in some hard to access nested
    sub-directory with a file ending that depends on your operating
    systems, which is not well suited for the usage in the context of
    VPI. To get around this, we recommend adding a custom setup to
    your cabal file:

    ```cabal
    custom-setup
      setup-depends: base, Cabal, directory, filepath
    ```

    that uses the `Setup.hs` of this project (copied to your project's
    root). This custom setup places the created foreign library into a
    `lib` folder created under your project's root and renames the
    file accordingly. It is important that the library has a `.vpl`
    ending to be used by a VPI simulator in the end.

  * From this point on, development of your `foreign-library` works
    like for a normal Haskell library. For interfacing with the
    simulator, you just need to have one exposed module within your
    setup that exports the Clash FFI entry point:

    ```haskell
    foreign export ccall "clash_ffi_main"
      ffiMain :: IO ()

    ffiMain :: IO ()
    ffiMain = -- Some FFI code
    ```

    This main action is run during the start-of-simulation callback of
    the simulator. This means while it can register new callbacks, it
    should not run forever as doing so would mean control is never
    returned to the simulator.

  * The simulator is started with flags which load the library. For instance,
    with `iverilog` the simulator is invoked with a command similar to

    ```bash
    vvp -L lib -l libclashffi-iverilog-vpi MODULE.vvp
    ```

## Supported API Functions

### VPI

General Functions

| VPI Definition            | Supported | Haskell API Function(s)               |
| :---                      | :---:     | :---                                  |
| vpi_chk_error             | YES       | simulationError, simulationErrorLevel |
| vpi_compare_objects       | YES       | compareHandles                        |
| vpi_control               | YES       | controlSimulator                      |
| vpi_flush                 | YES       | simFlushIO                            |
| vpi_get                   | YES       | getProperty                           |
| vpi_get_cb_info           | YES       | callbackInfo                          |
| vpi_get_data              | NO        |                                       |
| vpi_get_delays            | NO        |                                       |
| vpi_get_str               | YES       | getProperty                           |
| vpi_get_systf_info        | NO        |                                       |
| vpi_get_time              | YES       | simulationTime                        |
| vpi_get_userdata          | NO        |                                       |
| vpi_get_value             | YES       | receiveValue, unsafeReceiveValue      |
| vpi_get_vlog_info         | YES       | simulatorInfo                         |
| vpi_handle                | YES       | childHandle                           |
| vpi_handle_by_index       | YES       | childHandle                           |
| vpi_handle_by_multi_index | YES       | childHandle                           |
| vpi_handle_by_name        | YES       | childHandle                           |
| vpi_handle_multi          | NO        |                                       |
| vpi_iterate               | YES       | iterate, iterateAll                   |
| vpi_mcd_close             | NO        |                                       |
| vpi_mcd_flush             | NO        |                                       |
| vpi_mcd_name              | NO        |                                       |
| vpi_mcd_open              | NO        |                                       |
| vpi_mcd_printf            | NO        |                                       |
| vpi_mcd_vprintf           | NO        |                                       |
| vpi_printf                | YES       | simPutStr, simPutStrLn                |
| vpi_put_data              | NO        |                                       |
| vpi_put_delays            | NO        |                                       |
| vpi_put_userdata          | NO        |                                       |
| vpi_put_value             | YES       | sendValue, unsafeSendValue            |
| vpi_register_cb           | YES       | registerCallback                      |
| vpi_register_systf        | NO        |                                       |
| vpi_remove_cb             | YES       | removeCallback                        |
| vpi_scan                  | YES       | scan                                  |
| vpi_vprintf               | NO        |                                       |

Specific to IEEE 1364

| VPI Definition            | Supported | Haskell API Function(s)               |
| :---                      | :---:     | :---                                  |
| vpi_free_object           | YES       | freeHandle                            |

Specific to IEEE 1800

| VPI Definition            | Supported | Haskell API Function(s)               |
| :---                      | :---:     | :---                                  |
| vpi_get64                 | YES       | getProperty                           |
| vpi_release_handle        | YES       | freeHandle                            |

### VHPI

VHPI is not supported at this time.

### FLI

FLI is not supported at this time.

Commit message:

Add clash-ffi example project

clash-ffi/README.md, after:

# `clash-ffi` - Clash FFI with Simulator Tools

  * See the LICENSE file for license and copyright details

# Clash FFI

This package provides FFI support for interfacing with simulation tools over
a standard interface (e.g. VPI / VHPI / FLI). Currently only VPI is supported.

All interaction with a simulator follows the same general process:

  * The Haskell code performing the FFI is compiled as a foreign
    shared library. To this end, your project's cabal must be extended
    by a `foreign-library` section, e.g.,

    ```cabal
    foreign-library <my-clash-ffi-lib-name>
      default-language: Haskell2010
      includes:         vpi_user.h
      include-dirs:     </path/to/vpi_user.h>
      build-depends:    clash-ffi,
                        ...
      type:             native-shared
      lib-version-info: 0:1:0
      cpp-options:      -DVERILOG=1 -DIVERILOG=1 -DVERILOG_2001=1 -DVERILOG_2005=1 -DVPI_VECVAL=1
      ...
    ```

    See `vpi_user.h` for more details on the possible
    `cpp-options`. You can either use the `vpi_user.h`, which is
    shipped with this project, (see the `include` directory) or the
    one that's usually provided by the simulator. Note that
    `clash-ffi` gets included just like any other standard Haskell
    library to your project at this point.

  * Cabal creates libraries in some hard to access nested
    sub-directory with a file ending that depends on your operating
    systems, which is not well suited for the usage in the context of
    VPI. To get around this, we recommend adding a custom setup to
    your cabal file:

    ```cabal
    custom-setup
      setup-depends: base, Cabal, directory, filepath
    ```

    using the `Setup.hs` of the example project in the `example`
    folder (copied to your project's root). This custom setup places
    the created foreign library into a `lib` folder created under your
    project's root and renames the file accordingly. It is important
    that the library has a `.vpl` ending to be used by a VPI simulator
    in the end.

  * From this point on, development of your `foreign-library` works
    like for a normal Haskell library. For interfacing with the
    simulator, you just need to have one exposed module within your
    setup that exports the Clash FFI entry point:

    ```haskell
    foreign export ccall "clash_ffi_main"
      ffiMain :: IO ()

    ffiMain :: IO ()
    ffiMain = -- Some FFI code
    ```

    This main action is run during the start-of-simulation callback of
    the simulator. This means while it can register new callbacks, it
    should not run forever as doing so would mean control is never
    returned to the simulator.

  * The simulator is started with flags which load the library. For instance,
    with `iverilog` the simulator is invoked with a command similar to

    ```bash
    vvp -L lib -l libclashffi-iverilog-vpi MODULE.vvp
    ```

  * The `example` folder contains a minimalistic project utilizing
    `clash-ffi`. Check the `run-iverilog.sh` script in the folder for
    a quick overview of how to use `clash-ffi`. The script may be
    executed within the `examples` folder. If it does not work for you
    out-of-the-box, feel free to adapted it according to your local
    setup.

## Supported API Functions

### VPI

General Functions

| VPI Definition            | Supported | Haskell API Function(s)               |
| :---                      | :---:     | :---                                  |
| vpi_chk_error             | YES       | simulationError, simulationErrorLevel |
| vpi_compare_objects       | YES       | compareHandles                        |
| vpi_control               | YES       | controlSimulator                      |
| vpi_flush                 | YES       | simFlushIO                            |
| vpi_get                   | YES       | getProperty                           |
| vpi_get_cb_info           | YES       | callbackInfo                          |
| vpi_get_data              | NO        |                                       |
| vpi_get_delays            | NO        |                                       |
| vpi_get_str               | YES       | getProperty                           |
| vpi_get_systf_info        | NO        |                                       |
| vpi_get_time              | YES       | simulationTime                        |
| vpi_get_userdata          | NO        |                                       |
| vpi_get_value             | YES       | receiveValue, unsafeReceiveValue      |
| vpi_get_vlog_info         | YES       | simulatorInfo                         |
| vpi_handle                | YES       | childHandle                           |
| vpi_handle_by_index       | YES       | childHandle                           |
| vpi_handle_by_multi_index | YES       | childHandle                           |
| vpi_handle_by_name        | YES       | childHandle                           |
| vpi_handle_multi          | NO        |                                       |
| vpi_iterate               | YES       | iterate, iterateAll                   |
| vpi_mcd_close             | NO        |                                       |
| vpi_mcd_flush             | NO        |                                       |
| vpi_mcd_name              | NO        |                                       |
| vpi_mcd_open              | NO        |                                       |
| vpi_mcd_printf            | NO        |                                       |
| vpi_mcd_vprintf           | NO        |                                       |
| vpi_printf                | YES       | simPutStr, simPutStrLn                |
| vpi_put_data              | NO        |                                       |
| vpi_put_delays            | NO        |                                       |
| vpi_put_userdata          | NO        |                                       |
| vpi_put_value             | YES       | sendValue, unsafeSendValue            |
| vpi_register_cb           | YES       | registerCallback                      |
| vpi_register_systf        | NO        |                                       |
| vpi_remove_cb             | YES       | removeCallback                        |
| vpi_scan                  | YES       | scan                                  |
| vpi_vprintf               | NO        |                                       |

Specific to IEEE 1364

| VPI Definition            | Supported | Haskell API Function(s)               |
| :---                      | :---:     | :---                                  |
| vpi_free_object           | YES       | freeHandle                            |

Specific to IEEE 1800

| VPI Definition            | Supported | Haskell API Function(s)               |
| :---                      | :---:     | :---                                  |
| vpi_get64                 | YES       | getProperty                           |
| vpi_release_handle        | YES       | freeHandle                            |

### VHPI

VHPI is not supported at this time.

### FLI

FLI is not supported at this time.
